it's undying which her union with Greece
locomotives 11 and 12 were also used to
pull a full node of assembled coaches
known as the bathing specials which ran
every Sunday
these excursion trains were started in
an effort to entice more passengers one
of these a much watered down copy of the
famous French kazoo actually carried the
name on the side of the first
second-class coaches at a shilling five
cents for the return trip on a Sunday
with ubiquitous garry's to transport the
tripperz to and from the beach
these excursion trains were a great
success for many years special trains
were also put on for the annual orange
festival in Famagusta when long trains
ran from Nicosia to Famagusta with the
size of the coaches decorated with
oranges and a large plaque of an orange
fastened onto the front of the smog box
door of the locomotive in 1937
reconstruction begins on the old road
between Nicosia and famagusta
this along with the accumulating
financial problems that the Cyprus
railway faced resulting from ever
decreasing freight and passenger numbers
began to threaten its existence during
the second world war in post-war years
from about 1940 to 1949 the Cyprus
railway played a significant role as a
prime mover of troupes stores and
munitions from the Famagusta harbour to
the Royal Air Force Air Field at Nicosia
today the site of the Nicosia Airport
this contribution to the war effort
temporarily saved the railway
that left a backlog of repairs and
renewals which were no longer
economically justified road transport
however had arrived to stay inexorably
roads and bridges would improve and it
would consolidate its position for the
railway the writing was on the wall it
would have grind on making its waning
contribution to the expanding economy of
the island at the same time contributing
to its own downfall by the movement of
construction material for its adversary
much discussion and many studies were
made over the years in an attempt to
find a viable solution for the continued
existence of the railway but in the end
the matter had to be faced on November
10th 1951 the British government issued
an official notice stating that with the
approval of the Secretary of State for
the colonies the Cyprus railway will be
closed at the end of the year the
government has come to the conclusion
that there will be no difficulty in
carrying by Road the passengers and
goods formerly carried by the railway
and that the cost to the public will in
the long run be less the inevitable
happened the superintendent of the
railway promptly announced that no
further Goods would be accepted at
Famagusta harbour after the 30th of
November for the run to Nicosia and
commence preparations for the lifting of
the track the last train was scheduled
to leave Nicosia station at 2:55 p.m. on
Monday 31st December 1951 with
locomotive 12 which had hauled the first
train all those years ago on the 21st of
October 1905 it drew in to come across
turn at about four o'clock to be greeted
by some 100 invited guests officials and
employees
with the formalities over dismantling
gathered momentum as the track work was
rolled up through Nicosia and on towards
Famagusta the locomotives halt in
demolition trains and transporting rail
back to the yards between March 14th and
April 2nd 1953 the final train loaded
with railway material left famagusta
station bound for the harbor and the
steamship Marc Orozco which was to carry
the remnants of the cyprus railway to
italy the end had really come nothing
now remained but the gaunt and deserted
buildings awaiting distribution among
local buyers and government departments
and across the island a long ribbon of
land punctuated by the indentations of
the track sleepers and stone bridge
abutments that would remain visible as a
reminder from many more years to come
until the old line of the Cyprus
Government Railway faded from memory
today to follow the cause of the line is
a fascinating expedition in the 1960s
much of the new famagusta Nicosia Road
was built on the route of the abandoned
famagusta Nicosia railway track almost
certainly a good proportion of what
remained of the old railway was
destroyed during the Turkish invasion in
1974 especially in and around Famagusta
where several buildings had been
transferred to the police department and
lay in the path of the Turkish advance
into natascha
with some difficulty it's still possible
to follow most of the line from
famagusta right up to a very home
in nicosia in 1995 a station was
replicated at game eclis where a short
section of the track was relayed and the
restored guards man 1 5 2 was placed
until recently the story of the Cyprus
railway ends fittingly almost where it
began with locomotive number 1 itself in
Colonel Barry Turner undertook the
restoration of the old steamer which
quite some miracle had been left behind
On June 5th 1972 a gleaming fully
restored loco one was hauled out and
placed on a pedestal outside what was
once the Famagusta station number one
still stands a little dirtier once more
but one hopes not too affected by the
events that have taken place perhaps one
day the story of the Cyprus Government
Railway may be firmly reinstated in the
history of the Republic of Cyprus for
all future generations to be home
you